                      LDTA 2012 Call for Papers

                    12th International Workshop on
            Language Descriptions, Tools, and Applications

                             www.ldta.info

                            Tallinn, Estonia 
                        March 31 & April 1, 2012
                           an ETAPS workshop

LDTA is an application and tool-oriented workshop focused on
grammarware - software based on grammars in some form. Grammarware
applications are typically language processing applications and
traditional examples include parsers, program analyzers, optimizers
and translators. A primary focus of LDTA is grammarware that is
generated from high-level grammar-centric specifications and thus
submissions on parser generation, attribute grammar systems,
term/graph rewriting systems, and other grammar-related
meta-programming tools, techniques, and formalisms are encouraged.

LDTA is also a forum in which theory is put to the test, in many cases
on real-world software engineering challenges. Thus, LDTA also
solicits papers on the application of grammarware to areas including,
but not limited to, the following:
- program analysis, transformation, generation, and verification,
- implementation of Domain-Specific Languages,
- reverse engineering and re-engineering,
- refactoring and other source-to-source transformations,
- language definition and language prototyping, and
- debugging, profiling, IDE support, and testing.

Note that LDTA is a well-established workshop similar to other
conferences on (programming) language engineering topics such as SLE
and GPCE, but is solely focused on grammarware.

Paper Submission
----------------
LDTA solicits papers in the following categories.

- research papers: original research results within the scope of LDTA
  with a clear motivation, description, analysis, and evaluation.

- short research papers: new innovative ideas that have not been
  completely fleshed out.  As a workshop, LDTA strongly encourages
  these types of submissions.

- experience report papers: description of the use of a grammarware
  tool or technique to solve a non-trivial applied problem with an
  emphasis on the advantages and disadvantages of the chosen approach
  to the problem.

- tool demo papers: discussion of a tool or technique that explains
  the contributions of the tool and what specifically will be
  demonstrated.

Each submission must clearly state in which of these categories it
falls, and must not be published or submitted elsewhere.  Papers are to use
the standard LaTeX article style and the authblk style for
affiliations; a sample of which is provided at www.ldta.info.
Research and experience papers are limited to 15 pages, tool
demonstration papers are limited to 10 pages, and short papers are
limited to 6 pages.  The final version of the accepted papers will,
pending approval, be published in the ACM Digital Library and will
also be made available during the workshop.

Please submit your abstract and paper using EasyChair at
http://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=ldta2012.

The authors of each submission are required to give a presentation at
LDTA 2011 and tool demonstration paper presentations are intended to
include a significant live, interactive demonstration.

The authors of the best papers will be invited to write a journal
version of their paper which will be separately reviewed and, assuming
acceptance, be published in journal form.  As in past years this will
be done in a special issue of the journal Science of Computer
Programming (Elsevier Science).

Invited Speaker
---------------
To be announced

Important Dates
---------------
Abstract submission: Nov. 28, 2011
Full paper submission: Dec. 5, 2011
Author notification: Jan. 20, 2012
Camera-ready papers: Feb. 05, 2012
LDTA Workshop: Mar. 31 - Apr. 1, 2012

LDTA Tool Challenge
-------------------
The 2011 Workshop pioneered the LDTA Tool Challenge where tool
developers were invited to develop solutions to a range of language
processing tasks over a simple but evolving set of imperative
programming languages. We expect a challenge to form part of LDTA
every two years. The 2012 workshop will feature presentations devoted
to a de-brief of the 2011 challenge, based on the paper currently
being prepared by challenge participants.

Program Committee
-----------------
Suzana Andova, Eindhoven University of Technology, The Netherlands (co-chair)
Anthony Sloane, Macquarie University, Australia (co-chair)
Anya Helene Bagge, University of Bergen, Norway
Kyung-Goo Doh, Hanyang University, Ansan, South Korea
Jeff Gray, University of Alabama, USA
Görel Hedin, Lund Institute of Technology, Sweden
Zhenjiang Hu, National Institute of Informatics, Japan
Ivan Kurtev, University of Twente, The Netherlands
Marjan Mernik, University of Maribor, Slovenia
Sylvain Schmitz, Ecole Normale Supérieure de Cachan, France
Vadim Zaytsev, Centre for Mathematics & Computer Science, The Netherlands
Zoltán Horváth, Eötvös Loránd University, Budapest, Hungary 
Nate Nystrom, University of Lugano, Switzerland
[Full list to be announced later]

Organizing Committee
--------------------
Anya Helene Bagge, University of Bergen, Norway
Emilie Balland, INRIA, France

Steering Committee
------------------
Mark van den Brand, Eindhoven University of Technology, The Netherlands
Görel Hedin, Lund University, Sweden
Tony Sloane, Macquarie University, Australia
Eric Van Wyk, University of Minnesota, United States
